---
sidebar_position: 1
title: Application Structure
description: Learn about the structure of a DBOS application
---

In this guide, you'll learn about the structure of a DBOS application.

### Directory Structure

When you initialize a DBOS project with `npx @dbos-inc/dbos-sdk init`, it has the following structure:

```bash
dbos-hello-app/
├── README.md
├── dbos-config.yaml
├── jest.config.js
├── knexfile.js
├── migrations/
├── node_modules/
├── package.json
├── package-lock.json
├── src/
│   |── operations.ts
│   └── operations.test.ts
├── start_postgres_docker.sh
└── tsconfig.json
```

The two most important files in a DBOS project are `dbos-config.yaml` and `src/operations.ts`.

`dbos-config.yaml` defines the configuration of a DBOS project, including database connection information, migration configuration, and global logging configuration.
All options are documented in our [configuration reference](../api-reference/configuration).

`src/operations.ts` is the _entrypoint_, where DBOS looks for your code.
At startup, the DBOS runtime automatically loads all classes exported from this file, serving their endpoints and registering their decorated functions.
More precisely, DBOS assumes your compiled code is exported from `dist/operations.js`, the default location to which `src/operations.ts` is compiled.
If you're writing a small application, you can write all your code directly in this file.
In a larger application, you can write your code wherever you want, but should use `src/operations.ts` as an index file, exporting code written elsewhere:
```typescript
// Placed in operations.ts:
export { OperationClass1, OperationClass2 } from './FileA';
export { OperationClass3 } from './operations/FileB';
```
You can also configure the entrypoint in our [configuration file](../api-reference/configuration#runtime).

As for the rest of the directory:

- `src/operations.test.ts` contains example unit tests written with [Jest](https://jestjs.io/) and our [testing runtime](../tutorials/testing-tutorial.md). `jest.config.js` contains Jest configuration.
- `knexfile.js` is a configuration file for [Knex](https://knexjs.org), which we use as a query builder and migration tool.
- `migrations` is initialized with a Knex database migration used in the [quickstart guide](../getting-started/quickstart).  You can replace this with your own migration files.
- `node_modules`, `package.json`, `package-lock.json`, and `tsconfig.json` are needed by all Node/Typescript projects.
- `start_postgres_docker.sh` is a convenience script that initializes a Docker Postgres container for use in the [quickstart](../getting-started/quickstart). You can modify this script if you want to use Docker-hosted Postgres for local development.

### Code Structure

Here's the initial source code generated by `npx @dbos-inc/dbos-sdk init` (in `src/operations.ts`):

```javascript
import { TransactionContext, Transaction, GetApi, ArgSource, ArgSources } from '@dbos-inc/dbos-sdk';
import { Knex } from 'knex';

// The schema of the database table used in this example.
export interface dbos_hello {
  name: string;
  greet_count: number;
}

export class Hello {

  @GetApi('/greeting/:user') // Serve this function from HTTP GET requests to the /greeting endpoint with 'user' as a path parameter
  @Transaction()  // Run this function as a database transaction
  static async helloTransaction(ctxt: TransactionContext<Knex>, @ArgSource(ArgSources.URL) user: string) {
    // Retrieve and increment the number of times this user has been greeted.
    const query = "INSERT INTO dbos_hello (name, greet_count) VALUES (?, 1) ON CONFLICT (name) DO UPDATE SET greet_count = dbos_hello.greet_count + 1 RETURNING greet_count;";
    const { rows } = await ctxt.client.raw(query, [user]) as { rows: dbos_hello[] };
    const greet_count = rows[0].greet_count;
    return `Hello, ${user}! You have been greeted ${greet_count} times.\n`;
  }
}
```
An application like this one is made up of classes encapsulating _functions_, written as decorated static class methods.
There are four basic types of functions.
This example contains two of them:

- [**Transactions**](../tutorials/transaction-tutorial), like `helloTransaction` perform database operations.
- [**Handlers**](../tutorials/http-serving-tutorial) serve HTTP requests. Here, `helloTransaction` also acts as a handler, serving HTTP requests from the `greeting/:user` endpoint.

There are two more:

- [**Communicators**](../tutorials/communicator-tutorial) manage communication with external services and APIs.
- [**Workflows**](../tutorials/workflow-tutorial) reliably orchestrate other functions.

A function needs to follow a few rules:

- It must be a static class method.  For DBOS to find it, that class must be exported from `src/operations.ts`.
- It must have a decorator telling the framework what kind of function it is: [`@Transaction`](../api-reference/decorators#transaction) for transactions, [`@Communicator`](../api-reference/decorators#communicator) for communicators, [`@Workflow`](../api-reference/decorators#workflow) for workflows, or [`GetApi`](../api-reference/decorators#getapi) or [`PostApi`](../api-reference/decorators#postapi) for HTTP handlers.
- Its first argument must be the appropriate kind of [context](../api-reference/contexts). Contexts provide useful methods, such as access to a database client for transactions.
- Its input and return types must be serializable to JSON.

Once you've written your functions, there are two basic ways to call them:

1.  Any function (not just handlers) can be called from HTTP if it's annotated with the [`GetApi`](../api-reference/decorators#getapi) or [`PostApi`](../api-reference/decorators#postapi) decorators.  See our [HTTP serving tutorial](../tutorials/http-serving-tutorial) for details.
2. Handlers and workflows can invoke other functions via their contexts' `invoke` ([workflow](../api-reference/contexts#workflowctxtinvoketargetclass), [handler](../api-reference/contexts#handlerctxtinvoketargetclass-workflowuuid)) method.

To learn more about each individual type of function and what it can do, see our [tutorials](../category/dbos-sdk-tutorials/).
